# A Garden Runs Through It: Ryoanji Zen Garden at the nexus of Japanese Art and Culture

1. The history of Japanese art is a complex tangle of intersecting people, organizations and activities in conflict and cooperation toward cultural goals. By carefully following the strands of history from a single point in time and space, we can reach insights into a deeper understanding.
- To illustrate, I present to you the Ryoanji Zen Garden. Ryoanji Zen Garden (kare-sansui), was established by Hosokawa Katsumoto, Ashikaga shogun deputy in 1450.  Katsumoto instructed Zen priest Giten Gensho (5th abbot of Myoshinji) to transform the villa and establish a Buddhist temple ( official temple site history ). The _Garden_ has traditionally been attributed to Soami, painter and landscape artist, Renzai Zen monk, member of Amida Buddha sect. Soami and other painters of the period were influenced by the Chinese Song Dynasty, where Buddhism, Confucianism and Daoism were intermingling. He is also credited with gardens and paintings at Daisen-in Temple, also in Kyoto. The exact makeup of the original garden is unknown, as historical evidence only exists to a more recent era.
- That is because Japan underwent significant policial struggle across all social domains in the years following the garden's origination. So, when we look at Ryoanji Zen Garden in contemporary depictions, we are looking at a garden originally from 1798-1799, designed by Akisato Rikyo. This design was built on top of rubble from previously destroyed gardens. Significant discoveries since the 1980s has given much greater historical context to the current temple design (see, e.g. -- Immortals and Sages: Paintings from Ryoanji Temple -- : The Metropolitan Museum of Art Bulletin, v. 51, no. 1 Summer, 1993, which includes hanging screens by several artists of eras when the makeup of the garden is uncertain).

- The first Shogun, Minamoto no Yoritomo, is likewise responsible for Ryoanji's existence. Here is a paintig of Yoritomo (IMAGE ) Painting of Shogun Minamoto no Yoritomo by Fujiwara no Takanobu (1147-1199). Minamoto was the father of the Kamakura Era shogunate from the Minamoto Clan. He ruled from Kamakura city. However, the Imperial Court was located in Kyoto. Fujiwara no Takanobu was a respected artist who rose to prominence then.

- The Great Wave off Kanagawa, full-colour ukiyo-e woodblock print, Hokusai, c. 1829–1832 - Hokusai is considered a fulcrum of Japanese artistic eras and styles. He produced many works in ukiyo-e, a particular form of woodcut/printmaking using ink instead of pigment paints.

- Tai-an chashitsu at Myoki-an, Kyoto - design by Sen no Rikyu (1522-1591, known as Rikyu, among other names). Rikyu was a Master of the Art of Tea, Japanese tea ceremony. Rikyu associated with Rinzai Zen, and studied Zen at Daitoku-ji temple. A tea master for Oda Nobunaga, then Toyotomi Hideyoshi.

- After 300 years, the Shogun era waned. Rikyu, symbolizes the dramatic shifts in culture during the period. Image --- is a Raku teabowl, which symolizes the notion of Wabi-Sabi, which Rikyu had done much to solidify. As the Shogun began to split, Hideyoshi turned on Rikyu, ordering him to commit ritual suicide, which Rikyu did within Hideyoshi's Jurakudai palace in Kyoto. Rikyu's grave is in the Daitoku-ji Zen Temple in Kyoto. Hideyoshi would then torture and kill Rikyu's disciple Yamanoue Soji.

- This brings us to Image ---- Kabuki Play at the Three Great Theaters, a Newly Published Perspective Print (Shinpan uki-e san shibai Kabuki kyôgen no zu), by Utaga Toyoharu (1735–1814). Toyoharu's work is exemplary of Ukiyo-e woodblock prints. He and others used this technique to captures the culture and artistic aspects of the Edo Period, when Japan was mostly closed off from the rest of the world.

- By the late 1700s, Japan's closure was beginning to come apart, as rivals both external and internal sought to open trade relations with the Island kingdom. This reached its climax in the 1850s after Edmund Perry forced the Japanese to open their ports to U.S. trade. From there, the floodgates opened and the nations of the world began to set up shop in the nation.

- That opening, fostered by the Meiji Restoration and foreign powers with often clashing motives, led to the spread of Japan's sophisticated cultural production throughout the world.

- Sadly, that culture was both victim and victor. Bodies piled up on all sides of the world's political compass during the 20th century, for reasons that had been boiling under the surface for centuries.

- Of all the positive exports, the Ryoanji Zen Garden has been a shining star. One example of both inspiration and tribute is seen in Image ---- one of many cover artworks for Ryoanji, artistic project by American musician/artist John Cage (1982-1985). - Every aspect of Cage's conceptual art was filtered through an aesthetic that symbolized (but did not mimic) multiple levels of Japanese art and craft. Cage was greatly influenced by the spirit of Zen in Japanese art by artists like Hokusai and

10. Sekishu no Koe (2020), Digital interactive novel by Sam Hunny
